In this final segment on the business model canvas, we're going to look at,
what activities are uniquely strategically important to the business.
And that's really important because you're going to deploy
enterprise software very differently to a business whose activities, for instance,
have to do with residential Internet service,
versus a company with advisors that
service wealthy individuals through a private Swiss bank.
And the first framework where you use to
think through this was introduced in the late 90s,
and it's called unbundling the corporation.
And their idea was that there are
these three fundamental business model types: infrastructure-driven,
customer scope-driven, and product-driven,
and that successful businesses cohere and focus on just one of these three types.
I'll give you some examples.
Infrastructure-driven businesses are driven by skill and repeatability.
And electric utilities are an example of this,
Telecom are an example of this,
commodities, companies are also an example.
And then there are some less obvious examples, so,
UVA, or Stanford, or Georgia Tech,
these are all infrastructure businesses as well,
because while there's lots of thoughtful things that happen,
ultimately, they need to deliver
a good experience to lots and lots of students year after year.
An army or any kind of public service for citizens,
those will tend to be infrastructure businesses as well.
Scope-driven is a business where it's
a valuable thing for the customer that you're able to do a bunch of things for them.
So, retailers tend to be in this category, so,
Neiman Marcus or Harrods put a array
of high end clothing on the racks and make them available to customers,
Toys 'R Us takes toys and educational items for kids of all ages,
and makes them available so that parents can walk in and find what they need.
A bank, both on the corporate and the individual side,
is often a business that is trying to achieve scope with customers.
So, deposits, and mortgages,
and retirement, and investments.
And big corporate law firms are often
looking to provide a scope of services to their corporate clients.
And finally, we have product-driven businesses.
So these are businesses that do something unique and proprietary
that either connects with demand in a novel way or extracts some kind of a premium.
So, packaged goods like Nestle or Unilever,
application software, Twitter, Facebook,
media products are product-driven.
They're unique and proprietary.
So, take a minute and think about what kind of business you're working with now,
and which one of these it most resembles.
You'll find probably aspects of all three of these things in your business,
but which one is most important?
Because that's going to have a lot of implications for
where you focus and how you decide what's really
important as you design and deploy enterprise software.
Okay, let's do a quick quiz.
ExxonMobil. What kind of business do you think that is?
Well, and this is an oil company.
If you said infrastructure,
I would say that you're right,
that's what it principally is.
What about Kaiser Permanente?
This is a healthcare provider in the United States.
And if you said scope,
I would probably say that's the best description of their focus.
They're looking to provide a whole bunch of
different healthcare services to the individual as opposed to,
for instance, a doctor that just runs them in practice and specializes in one thing.
What about IBM?
Well, this is kind of an interesting case because IBM is kind of switch between
being product-driven when they were selling computers back when,
and now with their artificial intelligence and big data platforms,
versus they have for a long time been also focused back on consulting,
so large corporate IT consulting.
So, this may be an example of where it's important to fix on one of these,
and that helps drive success for the company.
Johnson & Johnson, I would say is a product company.
I mean, they're selling Band-Aids next to the CBS or supermarket generic Band-Aids,
and trying to sell those at a premium.
FedEx, which is a shipper of packages and letters,
I would say is an infrastructure business.
They're driven by skill and repeatability of that infrastructure.
And United Children's Theater,
what would you say they are?
I would say, principally,
they're an infrastructure business.
They're trying to create a highly repeatable basis to offer programming to students.
So, why does this matter,
and how would it change your decisions around enterprise software?
Well, let's take sales process for example.
In an infrastructure driven business,
this is going to be relatively standardized.
If you call the phone company and ask for something
really special on your residential internet service,
they're going to think you're crazy, right?
Whereas with a scope-driven business,
if you go to a retailer and you have questions,
or you're looking for something specific,
they'll probably try to order it for you or find it for you.
And with a product-driven business, ideally,
they're selling to retailers or other types of
distributors and their sales process is highly simplified.
Pricing and packaging, customer support,
these follow very similar patterns in terms of how tightly standardized do we want this,
versus how flexible for example.
And this has lots and lots of implications for what
a good workable strategically thoughtful enterprise software implementation should mean.
And these are just a few example iof areas I think you'll find if you try this out,
and bear this in mind as you make decisions and come your focal points,
that it has lots of implications for the way that you do things.
So take a minute.
Think about the key activities that are uniquely,
strategically important to running the business.
So, by unique, I mean,
it may be important to write good legal contracts and keep the books straight.
But if that isn't uniquely that's just as important to you as the next guy,
that's probably not a good example of a key activity.
Think about the things that are both strategic and unique to the business.
Here's an example of what that looks like at United Children's Theater.
They will develop curriculum.
And they're not going to usually create that from scratch,
they're going to license songs and plays from other people that
are more maybe product-driven places.
And student development means,
we find the students who are a good fit and we have a nice systematic program from,
let's say they start in third grade and finish in 12th grade.
School programming means connecting with
local schools and bringing them in to see the plays and performances,
and generally being a good partner to them as an outsource arts provider.
Volunteer development means getting those parents to help out with organizing events,
and answering questions on Facebook,
and talking to other parents,
and answering the questions about the program so
that United Children's Theater can run at a lower cost.
And donor development means,
finding donors whose charter and interests
align with what they do at United Children's Theater,
and getting those funds they need to run the business.
Now, let's take a look at key resources.
These are the assets that the business is in possession of,
or will be in possession of,
that are uniquely, strategically important to run the business.
So, take a minute and think about those,
and then I'll show you an example for United Children's Theater.
For United Children's Theater,
their track record in the community,
the fact that they have been doing this
successfully for so many years, is really important.
Their facility, they're conveniently located in a part of town
where students from multiple school districts
can reach them without too much trouble, that's really important.
Most of their donors are repeat donors.
So those relationships that they have with the donors,
it lowers their costs of sale,
and helps them raise the money reliably that they need,
the curriculum that they put together, that's an asset,
and so is that volunteer base that they get from volunteer development.
Okay. So, this is what the whole business model canvas will look like filled out.
Now, I know that we didn't explicitly cover a few things like cost structure,
key partners, revenue, and that's what the last five is for.
So, the last five of your 20 minutes here,
spend that time stitching this all together,
seeing how it looks,
feel free to revise it,
but think about those key relationships.
Do these two things really make sense together,
and do they complement each other?
Do these propositions really resonate with these customers?
Does the material that you put here dovetail with
what you're actually observing about the way that customers interact with the business?
And what are the things that are uniquely,
strategically important to the business,
and who are partners that do some of those things for you?
And then how does that relate to revenue and cost drivers?
Those are the things that you want to pencil
through as you finish up the business model canvas.
In the next set of material,
we're going to look at how we can use this business model canvas to drive
some really thoughtful ideas about
process prototypes that we can use to link with our user stories.
These are really useful assets because they
help you think about what's valuable and what's
important about what you're going to do with
this enterprise software before you go off and start building stuff that,
as we've seen in the intro,
is maybe very much at risk of being something that users don't like.
So, come with me and we're going to go look at how to think through
processes in a thoughtful way to drive to what's valuable for the user.